Oh man, I am so hungry I could eat a horse! I… I didn't mean it.
Hello, Internet. Welcome to Food Theory. The  show that won't eat a horse but will beat a     
dead one. Okay, so hear me out. The food world  is full of weird idioms  Bringing home the bacon,      
walking on eggshells, being a hard nut to  crack. Those all make some level of sense.     
But then you have ones like, I'm so hungry I could  eat a horse. That right there, that is a weird      
phrase. Like, why do we choose horse as opposed  to some bigger and more commonly eaten animal      
like an entire cow? Or better yet, why didn't we  choose something more absurd with a lot of meat      
like “I'm so hungry I could eat a bear” or an  elephant just to drive that hungry point home.     
Well, it turns out, for such a common phrase,  we don't actually know a lot about it. At most,      
we know where it seems to have first been used; in  year     by a writer named Tobias George Smollett. His      
original phrasing went a little something  like this, quote  “for I be so hoongry,      
I could eat a horse behind the saddle.” That just leaves me with more questions.      
What exactly did he mean to imply by saying  “behind the saddle”? Did he mean that he was     
so hungry he could eat a horse while riding it?  Did he mean he could eat directly through the      
saddle or under the saddle? Proper prepositions  be hard y'all. Or was he only interested in eating    
certain rear end parts of the horse that for the  sake of our monetization, shall remain nameless?    
I don't know. And most importantly of all,  why couldn't he spell hungry correctly? Truly,      
it is a mysterious phrase. But that's not  the only mysterious part of it. Horse meat      
is just one of those things that we as a  culture have collectively determined is not      
on the menu. And that's saying a lot. I mean,  humans will eat anything, literally anything.   
In parts of Italy, maggot cheese is a delicacy. In  Mongolia, they use sheep eye as a hangover cure.     
In ancient Korea, they made drinks out of human  baby poo. And yet, somehow, someway, horses are     
right up there with cats, dogs and pokemon on the  roster of critters that people in America just      
will not eat. Why? Where did this taboo come from? As I'm playing Tears of the Kingdom and getting      
low on meat, should I be feeling guilty when I  look over at my golden stallion and think, maybe.   
Now let me be clear. Today we are not eating  any horses. Stephanie would literally have a      
cow if I ever asked her to eat a horse. I also  recognize that the taboo against eating horses      
does not exist in all parts of the world. Far from  it. Horse meat is a key source of protein in lots      
of different cultures. In fact, it used to be one  here in America too. And you see that is why I'm      
so curious about this. What happened? When and  why did horse meat get canceled in America? And      
if I wanted to, if I really wanted to, could I  be so hungry that I could eat an entire horse?    
No. There are lots of reasons why horse  isn't on the menu today. But the one I      
bet you didn't suspect is that here in the  U.S.. Horse meat has actually been banned by      
the FDA for potentially being deadly. Now to begin, let's just get the easy     
question out of the way first. How hungry  would someone have to be to eat a horse?     
Well, an average sized horse has a mass of  approximately     lbs or     kilograms. Since  
horses are about   % muscle, that translates to  about    ,    calories worth of energy. Since  
the GDA, or guide daily amount caloric intake  for a healthy adult person is usually listed at  
    numbe calories. The meat from an average  sized horse would theoretically sustain a  
human for about     days, assuming you could  preserve it for all that time, etc. etc.. 
Like I said, that one right there, that is the  easy answer. But we want to get to the spirit  
of the phrase. The saying isn't “I'm so hungry I  could eat a bunch of horse meat”. It's “I could  
eat a horse”, as in literally the entire thing.  So what are we doing about all the other bits in  
there? Well, when it comes to organ meat, there's  nothing that says you can't eat the hearts, lungs,  
stomachs, etc. It's just a matter of different  preparations to get rid of the potential toxins. 
See, while some organ meat is healthy and even  recommended for certain health benefits like,  
say, all the vitamins associated with the  liver, others aren't safe at all. One example   
a polar bear's liver has enough vitamin A in  it to kill    adult humans. I don't hear the  
liver king talking about that one. But when  it comes to horses, their livers and hearts  
are perfectly fine to eat as long as you cook  them enough to kill any dangerous bacteria. 
As for the bones and skin, that one's actually  really easy. Some of you might already know this,  
but if not, it behooves me to tell  you that rendered down horse bones,  
skin and hooves is where most non-vegetarian  gelatin comes from. Oh, yeah. Jell-O, gummy bears,  
gumdrops, name a gelatin based food product. And  the default version of it's likely created from a  
rendering process where the unusable materials  from slaughtered meat animals gets boiled  
down to make the Jiggly Wiggly gelatin protein. As you might imagine, this process was a lot more  
labor intensive before the advent of industrial  farming, which is why gelatin desserts used to  
be exclusively thought of as food for the rich.  It's also why, when instant Jell-O powder became  
publicly available in the fifties and sixties,  Jell-O molds were considered to be such a fancy  
dinner centerpiece for all the middle class  folk, despite them being absolutely disgusting. 
Check out our episode about the Rainforest  Cafe, believe it or not, for more information  
about that particular phenomenon. Anyway,  in short, the gelatin takes care of all the  
hard to eat parts of the horse, and then you can  always use the bones to make a rich soup stock.
But what if I just wanted to eat a horse all  at once in a single day? Well, the Argentine  
falabella is actually going to be your best bet.  Generally considered to be the smallest breed of  
horse. These cute little guys stand at about     inches or    centimeters tall and weigh in at  
about  numbe  lbs or  numbe  kilos when fully grown, making  them about   numbe  lbs less than your typical horse. 
In total,   falabella is actually  going to translate to about  
  ,   nhjfhbkg calories. Meaning that  to eat a horse in a single day,  
you'd have to have the stomach of a competitive  eater and the black hearted of soul of a monster.
Oh, and not that you asked or anything. But  according to many nutritionists, this quote,  
“other red meat” is supposedly pretty good  for you. Containing about half the fat,   
less cholesterol and twice as much vitamin  B, an iron as beef. As far as taste goes,   
it's somewhat sweet, like a cross between beef  and venison. It's probably why plenty of people  
worldwide do in fact eat horse regularly. Heck,  If you happen to be watching this episode from  
Mexico, Switzerland, Kazakhstan, Belgium, Japan,  Germany, Indonesia, Poland or China, you might be  
horse meat to be sold and eaten the same way  that beef, pork, chicken or miscellaneous is  
here in the United States. And even here in  the U.S., it wasn't always this way. During  
World War II when most traditional meat was being  rationed, horse meat wasn't. It was both regularly  
advertised and sold at ordinary butcher shops. In fact, at one time, horse was among the most  
common cheaper end materials used  in the production of dog food.
According to the Humane Society, that practice was  supposed to have ended in the U.S. as of   mmmmm  . But  
again I ask, if it's so healthy for you and so  cheap and so accepted internationally and able  
to sustain a single person for over a hundred  days. Why has horse meat been explicitly banned  
in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration? Well, your first guess might be that it's because  
it's a cultural taboo for us in America to eat  horse. Sure, back in the World War II days eating  
horse was okay. But in the aftermath, Americans  saw the explosion of new forms of entertainment,  
movies and the newcomer television. And the most popular genre in those  
early days? the Western. Westerns became the  number one genre of movies between mmm     and mm    ;  
roughly one in four releases by studios was a  western. Meanwhile, over in TV land, you had the  
likes of the Lone Ranger, the Roy Rogers Show.  Not only were cowboys like John Wayne becoming  
household names, but their horses were as well. The Lone Ranger had Silver. Roy Rogers had  
Trigger. Even outside of Westerns you had  sitcoms like Mister Ed, The Talking Horse.
That show right there, that ran for six  seasons and had mmm    episodes. Different times,  
man. Regardless, all this pop culture exposure  transformed the horse from merely being a beast  
of burden into the loyal and sometimes heroic  member of the family. And you don't eat family. 
But here's the thing; the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration can only regulate legally based  
on health and safety concerns. So while sure,  culturally Americans might have had a problem  
taking a big ol bite of Black Beauty. Legally,  that's not what's going on here. No the big  
problem is that horse meat in the U.S. is toxic. According to an ASPCA Animal Welfare Institute  
and Humane Society report on the Toxicity  of Horse Meat  We have made horse meat in  
the U.S. is deadly to consume. What do I mean  by that? Well, the main role of horses in  
the U.S. and most other developed nations  are either as farm labor, transportation,  
or especially with sports like horse racing. Now, to fill these roles, the animals are  
subject to chemical treatments designed  either for the wellness of the horse or  
for performance enhancement of the horse. These  chemical cocktails basically render their muscle  
tissue entirely unsafe for human consumption.  Heck, for any consumption. Hence why it's no  
longer used in products like dog food. In mmmmm      , for instance, authorities in Ireland  
claimed to have discovered traces of horse  meat in hamburgers being sold as mm  % beef. 
This set off a massive horse meat panic that  became an international scandal across Europe,  
including countries where horse meat wasn't  considered a big deal because many people  
weren't aware that some U.S. companies were still  selling horses for meat to overseas distributors and  
that a whole black market existed around  their sale. That ASPCA report described,  
quote, over    known drugs expressly prohibited  by current federal regulations for use in food  
animals likely being ingested by basically  any horse that would even be a potential  
candidate to wind up on a dinner plate. But the actual number of different drugs,  
both legal and illegal, being used on horses,  especially racehorses, is likely closer to the  
hundreds. With at least one New York Times exposé  from  mmm    describing chemical cocktails of, quote,  
cobra venom, viagra, blood doping agents,  stimulants and cancer drugs. Another specific  
example includes the veterinary anti-inflammatory  Phenylbutazone, basically a painkiller for pets,  
which has been known to cause fatal blood  diseases like aplastic anemia in humans.
Here we are, pushing pills on poor  horses like Mister Ed since the     mmms.  
Fast forward to today and now look at  how far these noble steeds have fallen.
Honestly, I'm surprised it took me that long  to get a BoJack Horseman reference in here.  
But in all seriousness, wherever you draw your  line on animal rights, meat eating, horse meat  
yay or neigh, kinda feels like we should not  be shooting horses up with cobra venom and  
Viagra to make them run faster and work harder. Anyway, there you have it, friends. If you were  
so hungry, you could eat a horse. Should  you? Well, you could. And technically,  
it would feed you for a full third of the year  with a nice side, a Jell-O for dessert. Just make  
sure that that horse is not coming from the U.S.  Or, you know, you could always just opt for a bowl  
of apple jacks over Apple Jack, have yourself  an actual pie before a Pinkie Pie, a Mr. Pibb  
instead of a Mr. Ed. I think you get the idea. And a big thank you to our sponsor for today's  
(STOOPID SPOSOR ALERT!!)
this episode. And as always remember, It’s  just a theory. A FOOD THEORY! Giddy up.
